# Glossary
* LGBC NI - Local Government Boundaries Commissioner for Northern Ireland. Determines the boundaries of District Councils, and the boundaries of the Wards within each District Council, as well as their names, and the number of wards (up to 5 extra wards), within the bounds of rules specified in law.
* DEAC NI - District Electoral Areas Commissioner for Northern Ireland. Determines how Wards should be bundled into District Electoral Areas, and the names of these DEAs.
* District Council - since 1973, the only kind of council in Northern Ireland. The 26 councils created in 1973 were each defined based on a city or market town, plus the surrounding area (hence the title 'district'), and usually carried the name of the city/market town. The councils created in 2014-15 were made up of combinations of the previous District Councils (albeit with some amendments to external boundaries). While all councils are 'District Councils', some may be styled as a borough council or a city council instead.
* LGDs - Local Government Districts. the area covered by a District Council. When conducting a boundary review, LGBC NI will first consider if changes are needed to the external boundary, then divide the area into Wards, then DEAC-NI will bundle the Wards into District Electoral Areas.
* Wards - also referred to as Electoral Wards. The basic subdivision of a District Council. Each District Council will be split up into as many Wards as it has Councillors (i.e. 60 in Belfast; 41 in Newry, Mourne and Down, and in Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon; and 40 elsewhere). In parts of England, each ward will have its own candidates, and one Councillor will be elected to each Ward. In Northern Ireland, however, elections take place for DEAs.
* DEAs - District Electoral Areas. Each DEA is made up of 5, 6 or 7 Wards, and functions as a multi-member district, electing as many Councillors as it has Wards. Each DEA will have one set of candidates for the whole DEA, from which voters in the DEA may vote on via the STV-PR method. Since 1984, DEAC NI has determined the way in which Wards are bundled into DEAs (in the early 1970s, however, the Chief Electoral Officer performed this role instead). Each council is made up of 7 DEAs, except for Belfast, which has 10.
* STV-PR - The single transferable vote method of proportional representation (often simply known as STV). Voters rank as many or as few candidates as they wish in order of preference, writing 1 by their first preference, 2 by their second, and so on.
* Parliamentary Constituency - often simply called a constituency. Sometimes known as 'Imperial Constituencies' until 1973, to distinguish it from Parliament of Northern Ireland constituencies. A subdivision of Northern Ireland used to elect a Westminster Member of Parliament (MP), and also to elect devolved bodies for Northern Ireland since the 1970s (most notably the current Assembly, since 1998). 6 MLAs per constituency were elected from 1998 to 2016; from 2017 onwards, 5 MLAs per constituency were elected instead.
* Parliament of Northern Ireland Constituency - a subdivision of Northern Ireland used to elect a member of the House of Commons of Northern Ireland (known at the time as 'Stormont MPs'). Until 1929, these were the Administrative Counties of Northern Ireland (i.e. the six counties, with Northern Ireland's two largest cities existing as separate county boroughs, which also elected MPs). STV was used until 1929 - thereafter, a new system of single-member constituencies was brought in, often made up of combinations of District Electoral Divisions outside of urban areas. Additionally, Queen's University of Belfast (QUB) existed as a non-territorial constituency, in which graduates etc. could elect four MPs via STV, until the final election of that Parliament in 1969, when the QUB constituency was abolished and four new single-member constituencies were created around the outskirts of Belfast (other boundaries were otherwise unchanged). 


# 2022 local government boundaries (to be used in 2027 election)
